Is it legal to discriminate rental rights based on demographics?,"In general, it is illegal to treat persons differently and discriminate when offering access to goods or services based on religion, belief, political opinion, race, gender, nationality, heterosexual or homosexual orientation or marital status - including the right to rent a property. However, landlords/landladies/agencies may decide to let their property to anyone whom they consider suited, as long as this doesn't infringe on your general right to obtain housing."
Is it legal to discriminate rental rights based demographics?,"In general, it is illegal to treat persons differently and discriminate when offering access to goods or services based on religion, belief, political opinion, race, gender, nationality, heterosexual or homosexual orientation or marital status - including the right to rent a property. However, landlords/landladies/agencies may decide to let their property to anyone whom they consider suited, as long as this doesn't infringe on your general right to obtain housing."
Is it legal for an agency/landlord to discriminate against me because I'm a student?,"In general, it is illegal to treat persons differently and discriminate when offering access to goods or services based on religion, belief, political opinion, race, gender, nationality, heterosexual or homosexual orientation or marital status - including the right to rent a property. However, landlords/landladies/agencies may decide to let their property to anyone whom they consider suited, as long as this doesn't infringe on your general right to obtain housing."
Does a tenant's name need to be in the contract to be registered with the municipality?,"To be registered with the municipality: Applicants need a tenancy agreement, or signed statement and a photo copy of the passport of the main occupant, stating that they are allowed to register at that address, or a document that proves that they are the owner of a house, a deed of ownership or a deed of transfer."
What should I do if I do not get my deposit back after the period of time stated in the contract?,"In order to get help on how to initiate legal proceedings, contact the Housing Helpdesk of Maastricht University."
Is it legal to charge tenants an administrative fee?, "In most cases, housing agencies are not allowed to charge tenants administration fees/agency fees/contract costs etc. This means that if you rented the apartment through an agency, you can start a process against the agency if they are working for the landlord and advertised the apartment or room. If you have already paid, you can claim these costs back by first writing a letter to the agency."
Is it legal for the housing agency to refuse rental entirely if I  do not pay for the administration cost?,"In most cases, housing agencies are not allowed to charge tenants administration fees/agency fees/contract costs etc. This means that if you rented the apartment through an agency, you can start a process against the agency if they are working for the landlord and advertised the apartment or room. If you have already paid, you can claim these costs back by first writing a letter to the agency."
What are my rights as a tenant if my landlord refuses to pay for utilities and always enters the house without permission?, "A landlord always preserves the right to access to the accommodation. It is not allowed for the tenant to deny the landlord access to the accommodation. A landlord cannot enter the accommodation unannounced. He or she is obliged to first knock or ring the doorbell, and wait until the door is opened."
Is it my landlord's responsibility to maintain the piping system?,"The tenant pays for minor repairs and the landlord for major repairs and maintenance. The landlord is generally responsible for repairing communal drainage pipes and downpipes/rainpipes."
Am I allowed to not pay full rent due to the lack of service (not working heater)?,"According to Article 207 BW7 you may pay less if there are damages which are not minor damages."
How can I get the landlord to fir the leakage in the house?,"If the landlord/landlady/agency does not fix it, you may do so and charge him/her/them the costs."
What should I do if I do not get my deposit back after the period of time stated in the contract?,"In order to get help on how to initiate legal proceedings, contact the Housing Helpdesk of Maastricht University."
Is it legal to charge tenants an administrative fee?,"In most cases, housing agencies are not allowed to charge tenants administration fees/agency fees/contract costs etc. This means that if you rented the apartment through an agency, you can start a process against the agency if they are working for the landlord and advertised the apartment or room. If you have already paid, you can claim these costs back by first writing a letter to the agency."
Is it my landlord's responsibility to maintain the piping system?,"Unless it is only a minor damage, your landlord is required to repair it."
What are my rights as a tenant if my landlord refuses to pay for utilities and always enters the house without permission?,"A landlord always preserves the right to access to the accommodation. It is not allowed for the tenant to deny the landlord access to the accommodation. A landlord cannot enter the accommodation unannounced. He or she is obliged to first knock or ring the doorbell, and wait until the door is opened."
Is it my landlord's responsibility to maintain the piping system?,"The tenant pays for minor repairs and the landlord for major repairs and maintenance. The landlord is generally responsible for repairing communal drainage pipes and downpipes/rainpipes."
Who's responsible for repairing a hole in the wall made by mice?,"Tenants are usually responsible for repairing indoor damages such as painting the walls and ceiling, and reparing holes and cracks."
Am I allowed to not pay full rent due to the lack of service (not working heater)?,"According to Article 207 BW7 you may pay less if there are damages which are not minor damages."
How can I get the ladlord to fir the leakage in the house?,"If the landlord/landlady/agency does not fix it, you may do so and charge him/her/them the costs."
Am I entitled to reduction of the rent due to the malfunctions of the rented property?,"If landlords are not willing to do the necessary repairs then tenants in rent controlled housing can petition the Huurcommissie tenancy tribunal to lower their rent until the repairs have been done"